Welcome back.
I feel like you're still not really convinced.
I bet you're thinking Andre.
I feel like you're overhyping closures.
They're not that exciting.
You said is gonna give me superpowers.
Well maybe this video will convince you otherwise.
You see closures have two very important main benefits.
I mean there are obviously a lot of benefits but there's two that I really want to focus on and that
is they can be very memory efficient.
And it also allows to do something called and cap solution.
I hope I spelled that right now.
These two things are probably the coolest part about closures and I hope that this is gonna blow your
mind.
Let's start off with the first one memory efficient let's say that we have a little function.
I know all my functions I say are fun but I think this one's extra fun.
Let's say I have a function here and we'll call it a heavy duty function in this heavy duty function.
Well it's heavy duty because we're going to create a big array here in a nice easy simple way to create
a massive array is to do something like this new array and I'll fill it up with seven thousand entries
and use the fill method that comes with arrays and fill it in with a smiley face and in here we'll just
return big array so just to test it out.
Let's see what happens when I run heavy duty.
I click Run.
All right lots of smiling faces.
Everybody's happy.
That's great okay.
But let's say that obviously this is a silly example but let's assume that this is a very heavy duty
operation that we need to do and let's say that maybe this operation is about accessing a massive array.
For example if I do item here I can access Vega Ray by the index number.
So let's say actually instead of item list to index here and if I do index I can access different parts
of the array like six hundred or six hundred eighty eight.
And if I run this index is not defined because I can't spell.
Let's try that again.
Click run.
There you go.
I'm accessing the index of new right.
All right.
So far so good but let's say this index.
Six eighty eight is some place in maybe a database or just an array that gets access to a lot.
What if we call this function.
Many times many many times every time I run it.
Well right now we can't see so let's just add a console door log created which will be a string
that we run four times.
And in this case we see here that we're creating a big array adding data to our memory which we have
limited memory so we're creating it every time.
So every time we run this function we create this memory and then we return it and because nothing's
referencing it it gets destroyed and then we create it and then gets destroyed to be created and then
gets destroyed be created and that gets destroyed.
All right.
That doesn't sound very efficient.
Wouldn't it be great if there was a way for us to create this array and because we know it's going to
be used a lot to only create it once and just have it in memory there so we can just constantly access
it instead of doing all that work.
How can we do that with closures if you want pause here and try and solve this yourself.
Otherwise I'm going to get going instead of using the original heavy duty function let's create a another
function down here and this function will be called heavy duty to and heavy duty to well will be a function
that for now we can just copy from up above right here.
Let's do that and I'm going to remove some of these.
So heavy duty too.
We're gonna make some adjustments to it so it uses closure.
The first thing that we should think about is well a closure returns a function so we want to add this
to that little closure box and then return a function that holds a reference to bigger Ray so let's
do that.
I want to change this to created again and in here I'm going to create a function that receives the
index and inside of here we're going to return big array index nothing that much different from above
except for one thing.
Right.
We've created closure that is we have a reference to Big Ray.
Let's see what happens if we run this I'm going to run the heavy duty original function three times
and then I'm also going to create a variable called get heavy duty and this variable will actually use
the heavy duty to function and the heavy duty to function actually doesn't even need the parameter index
anymore because index is something we're gonna pass to the function that gets returned from it so here
I'm just going to call this and then I'm going to just say get heavy duty and call six eighty eight
maybe call something else as well less to seven hundred and then get heavy duty.
Finally eight hundred let's just remove the semicolons you don't really need those.
Now if I run this did you see that.
Now obviously I'm able to use get heavy duty or heavy duty to up over here because well of hoisting
right function declarations get hoisted to the top but we see a difference here right.
The first heavy duty was well created three times vs. heavy duty to where we used closures.
We were able to create the big array once and because we knew we were going to access it a lot.
We just maintain that closure scope over it and we were able to call it over and over without doing
all that creation destruction work.
How cool is that.
All right.
Still not convinced that closures are cool.
Well how about the second benefit of closures encapsulation for that.
I'll see in the next video.